# Exception Handling

> an exception is an abnormal condition that arises in a code sequence at run time
> in other words, an exception is a **run-time error**

## Exception Handling Fundamentals

> a Java exception is an object that describes an exceptional (that is, error) condition that has occurred in a piece of code.

> when an exceptional condition arises, an object representing that exception is created and **thrown** in the method that caused the error.

> that method may choose to handle the exception itself or pass it on
> either way, the exception is **caught and processed**

> exceptions can be generated by the Java run-time system,
> or they can be manually generated by your code.

> Java exception handling is managed via five keywords:
1. try
2. catch
3. throw
4. throws
5. finally
6. **try-with-resources**

## Exception Types

> All exception types are subclasses of the build-in class **Throwable**

> **Throwable** partition exception into two distinct branches.
1. Exception
   : exceptional conditions that user programs should catch.
   : this is also the class that you will subclass to create your own custom exception types.
   : There is an important subclass of Exception, called **RuntimeException**
   
2. Error
   : defines exceptions that are not expected to be caught under normal circumstances by your program.
   : indicate errors having to do with the run-time environment itself
   : **Stack overflow** is an example of such an error.
   : typically response to **catastrophic failures** that cannot usually be handled by your program.

## Uncaught Exceptions

> once an exception has been thrown, it must be **caught** by an exception handler and dealt with immediately.
> if we haven't supplied any exception handlers, the **default exception handler** provided by the Java run-time system will be used.
> The default handler displays a string describing the exception, prints a stack trace
> from the point at which the exception occurred, and terminates the program.

## Using try and catch
